OpenHaptics™ Developer Edition  
License Agreement 
 
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT (THE "LICENSE") 
CAREFULLY. BELOW YOU WILL BE ASKED TO ACCEPT THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF 
THE LICENSE.   YOU MUST ACCEPT TO DOWNLOAD 
OPENHAPTICS™ DEVELOPER EDITION (THE “SOFTWARE”).  BY ACCEPTING, YOU (THE 
"AUTHORIZED USER") REPRESENT AND CERTIFY THAT YOU ARE A SOFTWARE DEVELOPER WHO HAS PURCHASED PRODUCTS FROM 3DSystems 
ENTITLING SUCH INDIVIDUALS TO USE THE OPENHAPTICS 
DEVLOPMENT KIT (AN “ELIGIBLE SOFTWARE DEVELOPER”).  THIS LICENSE IS A 
LEGAL AND ENFORCEABLE AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN 3DSystems AND THE AUTHORIZED 
USER.  BY ACCEPTING THIS LICENSE, AUTHORIZED USER AGREES TO ACCEPT ALL OF THE 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS IN THIS LICENSE.   
 
THE AUTHORIZED USER MAY NOT USE, COPY, MODIFY, DISTRIBUTE OR TRANSFER THE 
SOFTWARE, EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN THE LICENSE. 
 
1.  License to Use. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, commencing upon download 
of the Software, 3DSystems grants to Authorized User a personal, non-exclusive, non-transferable (except for the 
limited right to distribute derivative works, as outlined below), revocable, limited license to install and use 
the Software solely for its own internal software development Use.  "Software Development Use" means Authorized User’s 
non-commercial, personal, educational, or research use of the Software solely for the purposes of 
education, research, design, development, evaluation or testing, but not for production use or for 
deployment or use in a production or commercial environment or any manner that would result in direct or 
indirect financial benefit including use of derivative works .
  
2.  Limitations on Use.  Except as expressly permitted by 3DSystems, the Authorized User may not use, 
copy, modify, or distribute the Software, or any copy, adaptation, transcription, or merged portion thereof.  
Without the prior written consent of 3DSystems, the Software may only be used with 3DSystems Touch® hardware 
or other 3DSystems branded hardware; the use of any other haptics hardware is specifically prohibited. The 
Authorized User may not lease, rent, sell, sub-license, transfer, or distribute, except to the extent expressly 
permitted by applicable law and to the extent that 3DSystems is not permitted by that applicable law to exclude or 
limit such rights.  The Authorized User shall be permitted to create and distribute derivative works, 
provided that (a) any such distribution is pursuant to a commercial license agreement and applicable fees 
and royalties whose terms are no less restrictive than the terms of this License; (b) any such distribution is 
to another user who is also authorized to download the Software by virtue of its affiliation with an Eligible 
Software Developer; and (c) such derivative work (i) shall not offer substantially equivalent or similar 
functionality to that provided by any 3DSystems product, or otherwise compete with any 3DSystems product including 
haptic software toolkits, voxel modelers;, (ii) shall contain a readable copy of the 3DSystems attribution notices and (iii) shall 
constitute a substantial modification of the Software and (d) such derivative work shall not directly or 
indirectly result in financial benefit to the Authorized User. The Authorized User shall not make copies of 
the Software.  The Authorized User shall not alter or remove any proprietary and/or legal notices, 
labels or trademarks of 3DSystems or its licensors on the Software. This License does not grant permission to 
use the trade names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of 3DSystems, except as required for reasonable 
and customary use in describing the origin of the Software. No license is granted to Licensee for any 
purpose other than set forth in Section 1.   
 
3.  Ownership.  The Software is owned by 3DSystems or its licensors and is protected by US and 
international patent and copyright laws and international treaties.  Rights not expressly granted are reserved 
to 3DSystems and its licensors.  Title, ownership rights, and intellectual property rights in and to the Software and 
all copies thereof shall remain in 3DSystems or its licensors.  Authorized User shall not take any action (a) 
inconsistent with such title or (b) inconsistent with the rights of 3DSystems in its entire intellectual property portfolio. 
No rights in and to the Software, by implication or estoppel, are granted and/or transferred to the 
Authorized User except as explicitly provided for in this License. Unauthorized use, copying or distribution 
of the Software, or failure to comply with this License, will result in automatic termination of the License 
and will make other legal remedies available to 3DSystems.
 
4.  No Warranty.  Unless required by applicable law, 3DSystems provides the Software on an "AS IS" 
BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, 
including, without limitation, any warranties  or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, 
MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Authorized User is solely 
responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Software or any derivative 
work and assumes any risks associated with its exercise of permissions under this License.    
 
5.  No Technical Support.  3DSystems will not provide any support services beyond that which is provided 
on the DeveloperEdition area of the Developer Support Center on the 3DSystems Web site.  
 
6.  Liability.  In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, 
or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts), shall 3DSystems be 
liable to Authorized User for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential 
damages of any character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Software 
(including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, 
or any and all other damages or losses), even if 3DSystems has been advised of the possibility of such damages.  
Authorized User assumes the entire responsibility for the selection and use of the Software, the output 
thereof, and for decisions made and actions taken based thereon and agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold 
harmless 3DSystems and its directors, officers, employees and agents from and against any and all claims, suits, 
proceedings and actions brought or threatened against 3DSystems that in any way relate to, arise from or result 
from any such decisions and/or actions. 
 
7.  Termination.   This License is effective for one year from the date of your registration. The 
Authorized User may terminate this License at any time by destroying all copies of the Software. Upon 
termination, the Authorized User must destroy all copies of Software.  The Authorized User's license to use 
the Software will terminate immediately without notice from 3DSystems if the Authorized User fails to comply 
with any provision of this License. If the Authorized User institutes litigation against 3DSystems or its licensors 
(including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Software or a any work incorporated 
within the Software constitutes direct or contributory infringement, then any licenses granted to Authorized 
User under this License shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed. 
 
8.  Export.  This Software is licensed for use in the US and its territories, or in any other country to 
which it is legally exported.  The Authorized User  represents and certifies that its acquisition of the 
Software is in compliance with all applicable US laws governing export, destination, ultimate end user and 
other matters (the “Export Laws”). Authorized User agrees not to take any action which is not in 
compliance with the Export Laws. 
 
9.  US Government Restricted Rights.  The Software is provided with RESTRICTED RIGHTS. 
Use, duplication, or disclosure by the U.S. Government or its contractors is subject to restrictions as set 
forth in subparagraph (c)(1)(ii) of the Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software clause at DFARS 
252.227-7013, or any successor regulation or as set forth in the particular department or agency regulations 
or rules which provide 3DSystems or its licensors with protection equivalent to or greater than that clause. 
 
10.  Governing Law.  This License is made under and will be governed by the substantive laws of the 
United States and The Commonwealth of Massachusetts,  excluding any of its choice of law provisions.  
The state and federal courts in  The Commonwealth of Massachusetts shall have exclusive venue and 
jurisdiction for any disputes, and the parties hereby submit to personal jurisdiction in such courts. 
Authorized User agrees that its breach of the provisions of this License will cause irreparable injury to 3DSystems 
for which 3DSystems will not have an adequate remedy at law and that 3DSystems shall be entitled to injunctive relief, as 
well as any other available remedy at law or in equity. 

 11.  General.  This License is the entire agreement between the Authorized User and 3DSystems relating in 
any way to the Software. If any provision of this Agreement is declared invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, 
then such provision will be interpreted or reformed to the extent reasonably required to render the same 
valid, enforceable and consistent with the original intent underlying such provision or, if not possible, 
severed from this Agreement. All other terms, conditions and provisions of this Agreement shall remain in 
full force and effect.  Failure to enforce any of the terms or conditions of this License shall not constitute a 
waiver of any such terms or conditions, or of any other terms or conditions. This License and the rights and 
benefits hereunder shall inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective successors and assigns.  
Authorized User cannot assign, transfer or delegate without the prior written consent of 3DSystems. No variation 
of the terms of this License or any different terms will be enforceable against 3DSystems unless signed in writing 
by an officer of 3DSystems.
 